21. TLBs make hardware more complex, so Minux definitely uses one. The best description of what a TLB is
as follows (choose one):
a) A memory to store page table entries
b) A collection of base/bounds pairs to help segmentation work quickly
c) An OS component to speed up translation
d) A hardware feature that ensures fair use of memory
e) An address-translation cache
22. Assume the TLB, which has just four entries, has the following contents (numbers in the TLB are all
decimal, and entries are all valid):
VPN 0 -> PFN 1
VPN 1 -> PFN 100
VPN 2 -> PFN 101
VPN 3 -> PFN 102
Assume this system has a 14-bit virtual address, and 4-KB pages. What virtual address will access the
physical address 50 (decimal)?
a) 0x0032
b) 0x1023
c) 0x3012
d) 0x3132
e) None of the above
23. When running on Minux, calculate the hit rate of the TLB assuming a process has 4-KB pages, and
accesses every 128th byte on a series of pages. Assume the TLB begins empty, and ignore code accesses
and just focus on this “strided” data access pattern.
a) Just about 99%
b) Just about 88%
c) Just about 50%
d) Just about 17%
e) None of the above
24. The Minux scheduler uses a new scheduler called “highest process ID (PID) first” (i.e., the job with the
highest PID always runs, and to completion). Assume job PID=1 arrives at time T=0, with length 10; PID=2
arrives at T=2, length=6; PID=3 arrives at T=4, with length 4. What is the average response time of this
approach in this example?
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 4
e) None of the above
PART IV: Finally, ZOS, created by Zinus, is the most novel of the OSes. Zinus is quite creative!
Each part of ZOS has some new ideas; are they good ideas? We’ll see!
25. To reduce the size of page tables, ZOS combines the idea of base/bounds and paging. A virtual address
space is still chopped into pages. The page table is pointed to by the base register, and the bounds register
holds the “size” of the page table (really, the max VPN that is valid, plus one). This approach (choose one):
a Enables fast translation with only two extra memory references to fetch a PTE
b Enables a compact page table, if you use the virtual address space carefully
c Is always smaller than a linear page table
d Supports a sparse address space while still also minimizing page table memory usage
e None of the above
